All right, so in this section we're going
to talk about strings, floats, integers,
and Booleans.
And along the way, we'll talk about a few
like different basic language constructs
that sort of fit around these things.
Okay, so here is hello world in Rust.
We say fn main.
So this is how you declare a function
in Rust, is what the fn keyword,
main is the name of our function.
Doesn't take any arguments.
And then inside the curly braces
are the body of the function.
So far, this is probably looking pretty
similar to what you might expect from
a language like JavaScript,
except for this exclamation point.
We'll get back to that exclamation
point in a couple of slides.
This is something that you might put
inside a file called, let's say app.rs.
so.rs is Rust's file extension.
And then I would compile this
file by running rustc app.rs.
When I run that, it's going to give
me out a binary file, which is
something like app.exe on Windows or just
something called app on Mac OS or Linux.
Then I can just execute that file
normally and it will print out Hello,
World to the screen.
So this right here is the entirety
of Hello World in Rust.
Rust has string interpolation, but not
built in as a language feature like you
might find it some languages
like Python or Ruby.
It's a little bit different in Rust.
So in Rust, this string interpolation that
I'm doing right here, where I'm saying
print line and then I have these curly
braces, and the first curly brace is going
to get substituted with greeting,
which in this case is hello.
And the second curly brace is going
to get substituted with subject,
which in this case is world.
So this is going to print out hello world
just like the version we had before.
But it's doing so with this sort
of string interpolation technique.
Now, the difference here is that in Rust,
it's not actually that all strings
support this, but rather that
print lines specifically supports
this as part of its implementation.
So although this is going to print
hello world, just like before,
it's it's doing a little bit differently.
Print line is not the only way that
you can do string interpolation.
Another really useful way to do string
interpolation is with this format.
So the difference between format and
print line is print line,
although it does string interpolation,
it always prints it out to the console.
Whereas format will just
take this interpolation and
then do the substitutions in
the same way that we had before, but
it'll just return a string.
So you can use this to sort of compose
together different strings using string
interpolation.
Another thing that uses string
interpolation is panic.
So panic right here, as we can see,
it's using string interpolation to put
the crash_reason inside the panic message.
And panic is basically when
you want to end the program.
So panic is not like throw in a lot of
languages or raise or something like that,
it's not based around exceptions.
It's really saying panic
means like we're done.
I give up.
I can't keep running this program,
we're exiting right now.
Technically there are ways that you
can recover from panics in Rust, but
it's kind of convoluted and it's,
in practice it's really not done.
Basically when you panic,
you're saying like I'm done.
This program is completely finished.
That's why I have this line greyed
out right here is that this line will
never get run.
There's no way to really get this line to
run because we're going to have panicked
before then and in fact, the compiler will
give you a warning about this saying like,
hey, you have some code after a panic.
That's not actually going
to gonna run anything.